# Configure LAMP Server (LAMP Stack)

xFusionCorp Industries is planning to host a WordPress website on their infra in Stratos Datacenter. They have already done infrastructure configuration—for example, on the storage server they already have a shared directory `/vaw/www/html` that is mounted on each app host under `/var/www/html` directory. Please perform the following steps to accomplish the task:

- Install `httpd`,`php` and its dependencies on all app hosts.
- Apache should serve on port `3003` within the apps.
- Install/Configure `MariaDB` server on DB Server.
- Create a database named `kodekloud_db2` and create a database user named `kodekloud_cap` identified as password `your-pass`. Further make sure this newly created user is able to perform all operation on the database you created.
- Finally you should be able to access the website on LBR link, by clicking on the App button on the top bar. You should see a message like App is able to connect to the database using user kodekloud_cap

## LAMP Stack

LAMP Stack is a group of open-source software that is typically installed together to enable a server to host dynamic web apps. Full form of LAMP:

- **L**: Linux Operating Systems
- **A**: Apache Web Server
- **M**: MySQL/MariaDB Database
- **P**: Php

## Steps

### Configure App Server

1. Install `httpd`, `php` and `php-mysqli`:

    ```sh
    sudo yum install -y httpd php php-mysqli
    ```

2. Change Apache port and Restart service

    ```sh
    sudo cp /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf.bak //take backup first
    sudo sed -i 's/\<80\>/3003/g' /etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf
    sudo systemctl enable --now httpd
    ```

    > Always make sure you kept a backup of your file before modifying it.

> Follow these two steps for all app server

### Configure Database Server

1. Install mariadb-server on Database server

    ```sh
    sudo yum install -y mariadb-server
    sudo systemctl enable mariadb
    sudo systemctl start mariadb
    sudo systemctl status mariadb 
    ```

2. Create User and Database

    ```sh
    mysql -u root -e "CREATE DATABASE kodekloud_db2;"
    mysql -u root -e "CREATE USER 'kodekloud_cap'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'your-pass';"
    mysql -u root -e "GRANT ALL ON kodekloud_db2.* TO 'kodekloud_cap'@'%';"
    mysql -u root -e "FLUSH PRIVILEGES;"
    ```

    > `'%'` This allows remote connection otherwise user will be failed to connect DB.
    
3. 3. Alternatively, login inside the mariadb and run the following commands:

    ```sh
    sudo mysql -u root -p
    ```

    ```SQL
    CREATE DATABASE kodekloud_db2;
    CREATE USER 'kodekloud_cap'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'your-pass';
    GRANT ALL ON kodekloud_db2.* TO 'kodekloud_cap'@'%';
    FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
    ```

### Verify Result

Click on `App` button to see the result. It should print the DB user.
