# Configure Jenkins User Access

The Nautilus team is integrating Jenkins into their CI/CD pipelines. After setting up a new Jenkins server, they're now configuring user access for the development team, Follow these steps:

1. Click on the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login with username `admin` and password `Adm!n321`.

2. Create a jenkins user named `mark` with the password `Rc5C9EyvbU`. Their full name should match `Mark`.

3. Utilize the `Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy` to assign `overall read` permission to the `mark` user.

4. Remove all permissions for `Anonymous` users (if any) ensuring that the `admin` user retains overall `Administer` permissions.

5. For the existing job, grant `mark` user only `read` permissions, disregarding other permissions such as Agent, SCM etc.

Note:

> You may need to install plugins and restart Jenkins service. After plugins installation, select Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running on plugin installation/update page.

> After restarting the Jenkins service, wait for the Jenkins login page to reappear before proceeding. Avoid clicking Finish immediately after restarting the service.

> Capture screenshots of your configuration for review purposes. Consider using screen recording software like loom.com for documentation and sharing.

## Steps

1. Update required plugins and restart jenkins
2. Manage Jenkins > Users > Create user > set username, full name, password to create user
3. Manage Jenkins > Plugins > Available Plugins > Search Matrix Authorization Strategy > Install it > restart jenkins
4. Manage Jenkins > Security > Authorization > Select Project-based Matrix authorization Strategy > Update permission like for anonymous unselect all checkbox and for user mark select overall read box and in job section read checkbox > save and apply
5. verify by logging in with user `Mark` and try to check if you are able to run or delete the build you will not able to 
