# Configure Jenkins Job for Package Installation

Some new requirements have come up to install and configure some packages on the Nautilus infrastructure under Stratos Datacenter. The Nautilus DevOps team installed and configured a new Jenkins server so they wanted to create a Jenkins job to automate this task. Find below more details and complete the task accordingly:

1. Access the Jenkins UI by clicking on the Jenkins button in the top bar. Log in using the credentials: username `admin` and password `Adm!n321`.

2. Create a new Jenkins job named `install-packages` and configure it with the following specifications:

    - Add a string parameter named `PACKAGE`.
    - Configure the job to install a package specified in the `$PACKAGE` parameter on the **`storage server`** within the `Stratos Datacenter`.

Note:

1. Ensure to install any required plugins and restart the Jenkins service if necessary. Opt for `Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running` on the plugin installation/update page. Refresh the UI page if needed after restarting the service.

2. Verify that the Jenkins job runs successfully on repeated executions to ensure reliability.

3. Capture screenshots of your configuration for documentation and review purposes. Alternatively, use screen recording software like loom.com for comprehensive documentation and sharing.

## Steps

1. Let's install the following plugins

    - SSH
    - SSH Credentials
    - SSH Build Agent

2. Go to Manage Jenkins > Credentials > System > Global credentials and Add credentials

   Fill:  
   - **Kind**: `SSH Username with private key`  
   - **Username**: `natasha`  
   - **Password** `Bl@kW`  
   - **ID**: `ststor01-ssh`  
   - **Description**: `SSH key for ststor01`
     
   Click **OK**. 
   
3. Go to Manage Jenkins > System  and Add SSH sites under SSH remote Posts
   Enter:  
   - **Hostname**: `ststor01`  
   - **Port**: `22`  
   - **Username**: `natasha`  
   - **Credentials**: `ststor01-ssh`  
   
   Click **Check Connection** → Should show **Success**.  
   Click **Save**.

4. Create a freestyle job `install-packages` with following configs

   a. Check **This project is parameterized**.  
   b. Click **Add Parameter** → **String Parameter**.  
   c. Enter:  
      - **Name**: `PACKAGE`  
      - **Description**: `Package to install (e.g., nginx, git)`

5. Proceed to build step.
    a. Under **Build**, click **Add build step** → **Execute shell script on remote host using SSH**.  
    b. Select:  
       - **SSH Server**: `ststor01`  
    c. Enter command:  
       ```bash
       echo "Bl@kW" | sudo -S yum install -y $PACKAGE
       ```
   d. Click **Save**.

6. To execute: Dashboard > install-packages > Build with Parameters
    a. Enter `nginx` → Click **Build**.
    b. Repeat with `git`.  
    c. Monitor **Console Output** for:  
       ```
        Installed: nginx.x86_64
        Complete!
       ```
