# Jenkins Chained Builds

The DevOps team was looking for a solution where they want to restart Apache service on all app servers if the deployment goes fine on these servers in Stratos Datacenter. After having a discussion, they came up with a solution to use Jenkins chained builds so that they can use a downstream job for services which should only be triggered by the deployment job. So as per the requirements mentioned below configure the required Jenkins jobs.

Click on the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login using username admin and Adm!n321 password.

Similarly you can access Gitea UI on port 8090 and username and password for Git is sarah and Sarah_pass123 respectively. Under user sarah you will find a repository named web.

Apache is already installed and configured on the app server. The doc root `/var/www/html` on App Server 1 is a local git repository tracking the origin web repository.

1. Create a Jenkins job named datacenter-app-deployment and configure it to pull changes from the master branch of the web repository on App Server 1 under /var/www/html directory.

2. Create another Jenkins job named manage-services and make it a downstream job for datacenter-app-deployment. Things to take care about this job are:
     - This job should restart httpd service on the app server (App Server 1).
     
     - Trigger this job only if the upstream job i.e datacenter-app-deployment is stable.

LB server is already configured. Click on the App button on the top bar to access the app. You should be able to see the latest changes you made. Please make sure the required content is loading on the main URL `https://<LBR-URL>` i.e there should not be a sub-directory like `https://<LBR-URL>/web` etc.

Note:

1. You might need to install some plugins and restart Jenkins service. So, we recommend clicking on Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running on plugin installation/update page i.e update centre. Also some times Jenkins UI gets stuck when Jenkins service restarts in the back end so in such case please make sure to refresh the UI page.

2. Make sure Jenkins job passes even on repetitive runs as validation may try to build the job multiple times.

3. Deployment related tasks should be done by sudo user on the destination server to avoid any permission issues so make sure to configure your Jenkins job accordingly.

4. For these kind of scenarios requiring changes to be done in a web UI, please take screenshots so that you can share it with us for review in case your task is marked incomplete. You may also consider using a screen recording software such as loom.com to record and share your work.

## steps

1. Update plugins and restart jenkins

2. Install following plugins
    - Git
    - Publish Over SSH
    
3. Add SSH Server, Goto Manage Jenkins > System > SSH Servers > Add Server:
   | **Name** | **Hostname** | **Port** | **Username** | **Password** | **Description** |
   |----------|--------------|----------|--------------|--------------|-----------------|
   | stapp01 | stapp01.stratos.xfusioncorp.com | 22 | tony | Ir0nM@n | Nautilus App 1 |

4. Create primary deployment JOb:
    - Job Name: `nautilus-app-deployment`
    - Type: Freestyle Project
    - SCM: GIT
    - **Repository URL**: `http://git.stratos.xfusioncorp.com/sarah/web.git`
    - **Credentials**: `None`  
    - **Branch Specifier**: `*/master`  
    - Build Steps:
        - Shell Execute, and add this line:

          ```sh
          rm -rf web
          git clone -b master repo-url 
          cd web
          sshpass -p "Sarah_pass123" scp -r -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ./* sarah@stapp01:/var/www/html/
          ```

5. Create Another Job: manage-services
    - job name: `manage-services`
    - Build Steps: create build steps of `Send or Execute shell over the SSH`
         ```sh
          echo 'Ir0nM@n' | sudo -S systemctl restart httpd
         ```

6. Goto `nautilus-app-deployment` job and add post build action:
    2. Enter:  
   - **Projects to build**: `manage-services`  
   - Check: **Trigger only if build is stable**

7. Now build `nautilus-app-deployment` job, once it build successfully manage-services will start building automatically.

8. Reload app link
