# Managing Jinja2 Templates Using Ansible

One of the Nautilus DevOps team members is working on to develop a role for httpd installation and configuration. Work is almost completed, however there is a requirement to add a jinja2 template for index.html file. Additionally, the relevant task needs to be added inside the role. The inventory file ~/ansible/inventory is already present on jump host that can be used. Complete the task as per details mentioned below:

- Update ~/ansible/playbook.yml playbook to run the `httpd` role on App Server 2.

- Create a jinja2 template `index.html.j2` under `/home/thor/ansible/role/httpd/templates/` directory and add a line `This file was created using Ansible on <respective server>` (for example This file was created using Ansible on stapp01 in case of App Server 1). Also please make sure not to hard code the server name inside the template. Instead, use `inventory_hostname` variable to fetch the correct value.

- Add a task inside `/home/thor/ansible/role/httpd/tasks/main.yml` to copy this template on App Server 2 under `/var/www/html/index.html`. Also make sure that `/var/www/html/index.html` file's permissions are `0777`.

- The user/group owner of `/var/www/html/index.html` file must be respective sudo user of the server (for example tony in case of stapp01).

> Note: Validation will try to run the playbook using command ansible-playbook -i inventory playbook.yml so please make sure the playbook works this way without passing any extra arguments.

## Steps

0. Move into ansible directory and check each files

    ```sh
    cd ansible
    ls
    cat inventory
    cat playbook.yml
    ls role
    ```

1. Create index.html.j2 file

    ```sh
    vim role/httpd/templates/index.html.j2
    ```

    > copy paste the following line:

    ```j2
    <p> This file was created using Ansible on {{ inventory_hostname }} </p>
    ```

2. Update `main.yml` of httpd role

    ```sh
    vim role/httpd/tasks/main.yml
    ```

    > add these lines at the below:

    ```yaml
    - name: Copy index.html template
      ansible.builtin.template:
        src: index.html.j2
        dest: /var/www/html/index.html
        mode: '0777'
        owner: "{{ ansible_user }}"
        group: "{{ ansible_user }}"
    ```

3. Add target hosts in `playbook.yml`

    ```yaml
    hosts: all
    ```

    > `playbook.yml` file should be look like this:

    ```yaml
    ---
    - hosts: all 
      become: yes
      become_user: root
      roles:
        - role/httpd
    ```

4. Run the playbook command:

    ```sh
    ansible-playbook -i inventory playbook.yml
    ```

5. verify with curl

    ```sh
    curl http://stapp01
    curl http://stapp02
    curl http://stapp03
    ```
